---
layout: post
title:  "What's new in v1.4.6"
---

Here is a summary of the main changes in v1.4.6. You can see the full changelog
file [here](https://github.com/clementgallet/libTAS/blob/v1.4.6/CHANGELOG.md).

### ImGui interface

The libTAS game HUD was rewritten to use ImGui. It has some constraints to be
used, so it will only appear for games using OpenGL, Vulkan or SDL2 renderer 
(> 2.0.18). For now, the previous elements were implemented (framecount, inputs, 
crosshair, lua, messages, ram watches). It is very easy to write for ImGui, so 
more will come.

A last feature is game window detach. When used, the game will not take the full
window, but will appear inside an ImGui window. 

### Savestates and threading

A limitation from using savestates has existed for a very long time: the 
impossibility to load a savestate if threads have been created or destroyed.
It was very annoying to users, and made several games impossible to TAS. Some 
features were implemented to mitigate this issue, mainly the backtrack savestate
that is automatically saved after a thread was created or destroyed, to be able
to go back as early as possible. Still it was not good enough.

So I went ahead and started working on savestate code being able to create or
destroy threads. My main help was coming from 
[DMTCP](https://github.com/dmtcp/dmtcp) which has a similar feature, although 
this program is created the process and all the threads, so the destroy part 
was not handled.

This feature is still largely untested, but has shown good results on games that
use threading a lot (like .NET games), with still crashes from time to time.
Thanks to this feature, backtrack savestates and savestate invalidation are not
needed anymore, so they were removed.

#### Terminate threads

Terminating a thread must be performed when threads are being suspended, before 
the actual state loading. Two methods are used to terminate a thread: the first 
one is by calling `pthread_cancel()`, which is a relatively safe way to stop a 
thread, but it relies on the thread hitting a cancellation point. If this 
method times out, we signal the thread, and the signal handler calls 
`pthread_exit()` (highly unsafe).

#### Creating threads

Creating a thread must be performed after the loading state has been performed 
because the memory layout and content must be present when the thread is 
created (especially the thread stack). We use the low-level `clone()` function 
so that it does not mess with `pthread` library, and the thread function then 
calls `setcontext()` to resume execution to where it was saved.

### Markers

Input editor markers have been extended a bit with its own panel to handle 
markers. We can now edit a marker's text and seek to its frame

### Lua

Add several new lua functions:
* `memory.baseAddress()` to get the base address of a file loaded in the game 
  process memory
* `runtime.saveState()` and `runtime.loadState()` to save and load savestates
* `runtime.isFastForward()` and `runtime.setFastForward()` to control 
  fast-forward
* `memory.readcstring()` to read a C-style string from memory into a lua string
* `gui.quad()` to draw quads
* `gui.text()` was extended to include horizontal/vertical alignment, font size 
  and optional monospace font
* `gui.window()` to draw an ImGui window that may be movable.

Additionally, a few modifications were made on the callbacks:
* `onPaint()` callback is not called when the screen is not rendering (due to 
  either non-draw frame or skipping with fast-forward).
* Move around `onFrame()` callback so it is executed before `onPaint()`, which 
  feels more natural.
* `onInput()` can now modify inputs even in playback mode, and the modifications 
  are stored inside the movie.

### More automated detections

* **Autodetect missing libraries and download them**: libTAS looks at libraries
  missing to launch the game, and for some of them, it can download them from 
  an Ubuntu package mirror and extract the library into a libTAS library folder.
  This is especially important for old libraries that are not present in newer
  Linux distributions. You are supposed to use the Steam runtime to launch the 
  game, but having a way to get the libraries directly is better.
* **Autodetect Unity engine**: When a Unity game is detected, libTAS automatically
  adds `-force-gfx-direct` to the commandline options.
* **Autodetect Godot engine**: When a Godot game is detected, libTAS automatically
  adds `--audio-driver ALSA` to the commandline options.
* **Autodetect GameMaker Studio engine**: When a GM:S game is detected, libTAS 
  automatically sets time-tracking clock_gettime() monotonic option.
* **Autodetect newer Unity coroutines**: The Unity hack used in v1.4.4 was only
  working for old engines (before 2019/2020). Now the hack is also working for
  newer engines, only if the file containing symbols (`UnityPlayer_s.debug`) is 
  present in the game. This is to locate the function that threads use to wait
  for new jobs to execute: `UnityClassic::Baselib_SystemFutex_Wait()`. In the 
  new engines, locating loading threads is even easier because the engine does
  assign a name to each thread. So we just have to look for `Loading.Preload`, 
  `Loading.AsyncRe`, `Background Job.` and `Job.Worker [N]`.
